*********************************************************
Release Notes - 0.9.0
*********************************************************

Furiosa SDK 0.9.0 is a major release, including many performance enhancements,
additional functions, and bug fixes.
In partcular, 0.9.0 release includes the significant improvements of the quantization tools.

.. list-table:: Component Version Information
   :widths: 200 50
   :header-rows: 1

   * - Package Name
     - Version
   * - NPU Driver
     - 1.7.0
   * - NPU Firmware Tools
     - 1.4.0
   * - NPU Firmware Image
     - 1.7.0
   * - HAL (Hardware Abstraction Layer)
     - 0.11.0
   * - Furiosa Compiler
     - 0.9.0
   * - Python SDK (furiosa-runtime, furiosa-server, furiosa-serving, furiosa-quantizer, ..)
     - 0.9.0
   * - NPU Management CLI (furiosactl)
     - 0.11.0
   * - NPU Device Plugin
     - 0.10.1
   * - NPU Feature Discovery
     - 0.2.0

Installing the latest SDK
--------------------------------------------------------
If you are using APT repository, the upgrade process is simpler.

.. code-block:: sh

  apt-get update && apt-get upgrade

If you wish to designate a specific package for upgrade, execute as below:
You can find more details about APT repository setup at
:ref:`RequiredPackages`.

.. code-block:: sh

  apt-get update && \
  apt-get install -y furiosa-driver-pdma furiosa-libhal-warboy furiosa-libnux furiosactl

You can upgrade firmware as follows:

.. code-block:: sh

    apt-get update && \
    apt-get install -y furiosa-firmware-tools furiosa-firmware-image

You can upgrade Python package as follows:

.. code-block:: sh

    pip install --upgrade pip setuptools wheel
    pip install --upgrade furiosa-sdk

.. warning::
  When installing or upgrading the furiosa-sdk without updating pip to the latest version, you may encounter the following errors.

  .. code-block:: sh

      ERROR: Could not find a version that satisfies the requirement furiosa-quantizer-impl==0.9.* (from furiosa-quantizer==0.9.*->furiosa-sdk) (from versions: none)
      ERROR: No matching distribution found for furiosa-quantizer-impl==0.9.* (from furiosa-quantizer==0.9.*->furiosa-sdk)

Major changes
--------------------------------------------------------

Quantization tool
================================================================
Quantization tool is a library that converts a pre-trained model to a quantized model.
You can refer to more details at :ref:`ModelQuantization`
0.9.0 release includes the API improvement and new calibration methods,
possibly leading to better accuracy.

* Added new quantization-related APIs that are more flexible and solid. (``furiosa.quantizer`` , ``furiosa.optimizer`` )

.. code-block:: python

  optimized_onnx_model = optimize_model(source_onnx_model)
  calibrator = Calibrator(optimized_onnx_model, CalibrationMethod.MIN_MAX_ASYM)
  for calibration_data, _ in tqdm.tqdm(calibration_dataloader, desc="Calibration", unit="images", mininterval=0.5):
    calibrator.collect_data([[calibration_data.numpy()]])
  ranges = calibrator.compute_range()
  quantizated_graph = quantize(optimized_onnx_model, ranges)

* Added an option to decide whether to perform quantize at the beginning of the model.

  * Instead of ``without_quantize`` being removed from the compiler options, it can be specified via the argument ``with_quantize`` to the ``quantize`` function.

* The ``normalized_pixel_outputs`` argument to the ``quantize`` function can be set to convert the model output to uint8 instead of dequantizing to fp32.

  * A tensor with an element range of ``(0. , 1.)`` can be optimized to convert to pixel data in uint8.

* Provides more calibration methods.

.. list-table:: Supported Calibration Methods
   :widths: 300 50 50
   :header-rows: 1

   * - Calibration Method
     - Asymmetric
     - QuasiSymmetric
   * - Min-Max
     - MIN_MAX_ASYM
     - MIN_MAX_SYM
   * - Entropy
     - ENTROPY_ASYM
     - ENTROPY_SYM
   * - Percentile
     - PERCENTILE_ASYM
     - PERCENTILE_SYM
   * - Mean squared error
     - MSE_ASYM
     - MSE_SYM
   * - Signal-to-quantization-noise ratio
     - SQNR_ASYM
     - SQNR_SYM

To ensure the effectiveness of new calibration methods,
we measured the accuracy of 10 popular models with the new calibration methods.
Among them, 8 models showed better accuracy than the existing calibration methods.
For example, the accuracy of EfficientNet-B0 increased by 57.452%.
With the min-max calibration method, EfficientNet-B0 had an accuracy of 16.104%.
In contrast, with the percentile calibration method, the accuracy was 73.556%.
The details of the experiment results can be found at :ref:`QuantizationAccuracyTable`.

For more information on installing and using the new quantizer, you can refer to the following examples.

* `Tutorial: How to use Furiosa SDK from Start to Finish <https://github.com/furiosa-ai/furiosa-sdk/blob/v0.9.0/examples/notebooks/HowToUseFuriosaSDKFromStartToFinish.ipynb>`_


Compiler
==============
* Added acceleration support for operators Lower, Unlower
* Added acceleration support for operator Dequantize
* Support for executing binaries that are larger than the hardware's instruction memory
* Improved scheduler and memory allocator to eliminate unnecessary I/O
* Various improvements optimize compilation for better execution performance


furiosa-toolkit
================================================================
The ``furiosactl`` command-line tool included in the furiosa-toolkit 0.11.0 release includes improvements to the
includes the following major improvements

The newly added ``furiosactl top`` command is used to view utilization by NPU device over time.

.. code-block:: sh

  $ furiosactl top --interval 200
  NOTE: furiosa top is under development. Usage and output formats may change.
  Please enter Ctrl+C to stop.
  Datetime                        PID       Device        NPU(%)   Comp(%)   I/O(%)   Command
  2023-03-21T09:45:56.699483936Z  152616    npu1pe0-1      19.06    100.00     0.00   ./npu_runtime_test -n 10000 results/ResNet-CTC_kor1_200_nightly3_128dpes_8batches.enf
  2023-03-21T09:45:56.906443888Z  152616    npu1pe0-1      51.09     93.05     6.95   ./npu_runtime_test -n 10000 results/ResNet-CTC_kor1_200_nightly3_128dpes_8batches.enf
  2023-03-21T09:45:57.110489333Z  152616    npu1pe0-1      46.40     97.98     2.02   ./npu_runtime_test -n 10000 results/ResNet-CTC_kor1_200_nightly3_128dpes_8batches.enf
  2023-03-21T09:45:57.316060982Z  152616    npu1pe0-1      51.43    100.00     0.00   ./npu_runtime_test -n 10000 results/ResNet-CTC_kor1_200_nightly3_128dpes_8batches.enf
  2023-03-21T09:45:57.521140588Z  152616    npu1pe0-1      54.28     94.10     5.90   ./npu_runtime_test -n 10000 results/ResNet-CTC_kor1_200_nightly3_128dpes_8batches.enf
  2023-03-21T09:45:57.725910558Z  152616    npu1pe0-1      48.93     98.93     1.07   ./npu_runtime_test -n 10000 results/ResNet-CTC_kor1_200_nightly3_128dpes_8batches.enf
  2023-03-21T09:45:57.935041998Z  152616    npu1pe0-1      47.91    100.00     0.00   ./npu_runtime_test -n 10000 results/ResNet-CTC_kor1_200_nightly3_128dpes_8batches.enf
  2023-03-21T09:45:58.13929122Z   152616    npu1pe0-1      49.06     94.94     5.06   ./npu_runtime_test -n 10000 results/ResNet-CTC_kor1_200_nightly3_128dpes_8batches.enf

The ``furiosactl info`` command has been improved to display concise information about each device. As before, you can enter the ``--full`` option if you want to see more information about a device.

.. code-block::

  $ furiosactl info
  +------+--------+----------------+-------+--------+--------------+
  | NPU  | Name   | Firmware       | Temp. | Power  | PCI-BDF      |
  +------+--------+----------------+-------+--------+--------------+
  | npu1 | warboy | 1.6.0, 3c10fd3 |  54°C | 0.99 W | 0000:44:00.0 |
  +------+--------+----------------+-------+--------+--------------+

  $ furiosactl info --full
  +------+--------+--------------------------------------+-------------------+----------------+-------+--------+--------------+---------+
  | NPU  | Name   | UUID                                 | S/N               | Firmware       | Temp. | Power  | PCI-BDF      | PCI-DEV |
  +------+--------+--------------------------------------+-------------------+----------------+-------+--------+--------------+---------+
  | npu1 | warboy | 00000000-0000-0000-0000-000000000000 | WBYB0000000000000 | 1.6.0, 3c10fd3 |  54°C | 0.99 W | 0000:44:00.0 | 511:0   |
  +------+--------+--------------------------------------+-------------------+----------------+-------+--------+--------------+---------+

More information about installing and using ``furiosactl`` can be found in :ref:`Toolkit`.

